This video I'm going to discuss of raftered ports on ethernet switches in this industry typology I have
to I was v layer 2 switches and an Iowa V router.
The devices have no configuration.
So they've just booted up and bypassed the initial configuration dialog on the router.
And let's start by configuring host names on the switches
and I'll configure a hostname on the router so no configuration has been done on these devices at all.
They're using the default configuration and I've simply changed the hostname.
So show CGP neighbors on switch one shows me that switch to is available on the gigabit 00 interface
CGP was advertising switch to with a name switch until I changed it on switched to shows CTP neighbor.
We can see switch one connected to keep it.
0 0 0.
We don't see the router on gigabit to 0 1 because a rod has interfaces are shut down by default.
Show interface.
Gigabit 00 switch port.
He has the command.
We can see that the interface is enabled as a switch port.
It's using dynamic orda DTP mode or dynamic trunking protocol mode.
The land that the port belongs to is Villon land one because it wasn't able to negotiate trunking with
switch to.
There are no trunk's configured on the switch.
So show interface could give it to 00 such port.
We can see that it's a static access port negotiation of trunking is enabled but it hasn't negotiated
trunking with the other side the interface belongs to the land one on switch to we would see something
similar.
So show interface gigabit 00 switch port.
The interface is enabled as a switch port using dynamic order mode.
So when we look at the villans at the moment only the land one and the other default villans are configured
on the switches.
We're not going to worry about if the Diovan token ring in these videos what I could do is create a
switch to a virtual interface is vi you do that by using the interface the land command.
We can see that the interface has gone down.
But what I could do is configure an IP address on this interface and then shut it.
I could then also do something similar create an ace VI or switch to a virtual interface for a villain
one
and give the switch an IP address and no shut the VI interfaces come up on both sides.
So we should be able to ping switch to from switch one there's the ping again and we should be able
to ping switch one from switch to.
So the physical interface is a layer to interface gigabit to 0 0 is enabled as a switch port interface.
It's a layer to interface it supports protocols such as spanning tree.
Notice this port is the root port on switch 2 and it's forwarding shows spending tree here shows that
gigabit 00 is the designated port on the switch and it's also forwarding protocols such as DGP and spending
tree run across switch ports or lead to ports.
But what I could do as an example on switch to is make the port a routed port by using the command no
switch port interfaces come up.
And now when we tap the C'mon show interface geek give it 0 0 or switch port.
Notice we told that the switch port has disabled Whereas on this side it's still enabled as a switch
port.
And we can see the access feelin that the port belongs to.
We'll also be able to see whether it becomes a trunk.
But that's not true on the router port.
Another difference between a rotted port and a switch port is you can configure an IP address directly
on the interface.
Do show run interface gigabit 00 notice it's disabled as a switch port and an IP address has been configured
directly on the interface.
Whereas if I try that here and try and configure an IP address it's not recognized.
So at this point all just change that IP address to make it consistent.
Because this is switch to.
But notice the IP address command is not available on this side because it's currently a switch port.
But if I type a no switch port and then IP address notice I can configure the IP address on the interface
to show interface but 00 a switch port it is disabled as a switch port.
But I can pain switch to through that interface.
So shows spending tree notice spending tree is not enabled on gigabit 00 previously gigabit 00 was a
designated port.
But now it's not shown in the output because spending tree and dynamic trunk protocol do not run on
rodded ports.
Gigabit 00 does also not appear on the side show run interface but 00 shows us that an IP address is
configured on the interface.
If I enable this port has a switch port and look at the running config of that interface again.
Notice the IP address has been removed and spending tree is running on that interface.
Once again its interface Gieger but 00 no switch port IP address 10 1 to 2
shows spending tree spending trees not running on gigabit 0 0 I should be able to ping switch one.
So show IP interface brief shows us that the interface has an IP address configured on it whereas this
interface is a layer to interface and the FBI will switch to a virtual interface is used as the layer
3 interface so Chauvelin brief notice can give it a 00 is not in the list of interfaces that belonged
to villaine one this interface.
Gigabit 0 1 is a layer to interface and belongs to the LAN one and has the as it's a layer 3 IP address.
So basically when you type no switch port you're turning that interface into a routed interface so it
acts like a router.
So gigabit is 0 1 now is configure it as a routed interface and on a router we would do something very
similar.
No shut the interface and configure an IP address directly on the interface and we should be able to
ping switch to through that routed interface which we can.
We could also enable a routing protocol.
So Ali Nabl your job on all interfaces can do the same here.
Rodda your job p 1 and enable your job and all interfaces show IP your job interfaces to enabled and
all interfaces.
And a neighbor relationship has been established.
Show IP your GOP neighbor the neighbor relationship is established on the gigabit 0 1 interface not
on the SBI But once again if we changed gigabit 00 to a switch port and then enabled the GOP on this
site.
Notice the difference in the neighbor relationships.
A show IPY GOP neighbor no neighbor relationship is established because I need to make this a switch
port to put them back in the same subnet.
So let's check Ping's can wrote it to ping Rotto one at the moment.
And that's probably because of spending tree.
Notice that port is learning.
So we've got to wait for spending tree to converge before the GOP can form a neighbor relationship.
Rodded ports however don't use spending tree so they will converge quicker than a spending report will.
So the convergence has just taken place.
Your GOP neighbor relationship is established.
So show I.P your job.
He never noticed the difference.
This may be it which is switch one has been learnt on line one whereas the router has been learnt on
the gigabit 0 1 interface to show run interface Keiga bitches 0 0 and 0 1.
Notice the difference switch port is enabled on gigabit 00 no switch port has been configured on gigabit.
0 1 when ping from switch to switch one using the FBI interface but when we paying from switch to to
Rotto one way using the physical interface Subrata ports are typically used between switches and routers
for example where a Rodek connection to the Internet switched of virtual interfaces and switch port
interfaces are typically used in a campus environment where you need to tag multiple villans across
an interface a routed port doesn't have the concept of villans they are no villans you don't run spending
tree and you don't run DTP or domestic trunk protocol.
The port is a routed port in the same way that you configure a routed port on a router.
So again show IPTA GOP neighbor notice the difference in how they neighbor relationships are formed.
I hope you found this video useful if it's been of benefit to you.
Please LIKE IT PLEASE SUBSCRIBE TO MY YOUTUBE CHANNEL.
I wish you all the very best.